.\" $NiH$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Thomas Klausner.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"    with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THOMAS KLAUSNER ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH CKMAME 1 "January 30, 2003" NiH
.SH "NAME"
ckmame \- verify MAME rom sets
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B ckmame
[\fB-bcdFfhKkLlnSsUuVvw\fR]
[\fB-D\fR \fBdbfile\fR]
[\fBgame ...\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ckmame
checks rom sets for MAME, the Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator.
Actually, it now also supports more than that, you can also check
sets for e.g. Raine, Impact, or other emulators.
.PP
It uses
\fBmkmamedb\fR
to convert CMPro database files into an internal format that's faster
to parse.
.PP
Supported options:
.RS
.TP 12
\fB-b\fR
Don't report unfixable errors.
See also
\fB-f\fR
and
\fB-w\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-c\fR
Report correct sets.
Normally they are not mentioned.
.TP 12
\fB-D\fR \fBdbfile\fR
Use
\fBdbfile\fR
as database file.
.TP 12
\fB-d\fR
Don't report roms with no known good dumps.
.TP 12
\fB-F\fR
Fix rom sets; do as much as possible, such as renaming and moving
files.
.TP 12
\fB-f\fR
Don't report fixable errors.
See also
\fB-b\fR
and
\fB-w\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-h\fR
Display a short help message.
.TP 12
\fB-K\fR
Keep unknown files when fixing (default).
They are moved into a zip file with the same name under
\fIroms/garbage.\fR
See also
\fB-k\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-k\fR
Don't keep unknown files when fixing.
See also
\fB-K\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-L\fR
Keep too long files when fixing (default).
See also
\fB-K\fR
and
\fB-l\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-l\fR
Don't keep long files when fixing, delete them instead.
See also
\fB-L\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-n\fR
Don't actually fix anything, just report what would be done.
.TP 12
\fB-S\fR
Check samples instead of roms.
.TP 12
\fB-s\fR
Don't report superfluous (unneeded) files.
.TP 12
\fB-U\fR
Keep unused files when fixing.
Unused files are files that should, and do exist in other places.
See also
\fB-u\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-u\fR
Don't keep unused files when fixing (default), delete them instead.
See also
\fB-U\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-V\fR
Display program name and version number.
.TP 12
\fB-v\fR
Print fixes made.
.TP 12
\fB-w\fR
Print only unfixable error, like missing or completely incorrect roms.
See also
\fB-b\fR
and
\fB-f\fR.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Get an input file for
\fBmkmamedb :\fR
.IP
\fBxmame \-listinfo > db.txt\fR
.PP
.PP
Convert the input file to the internal db format:
.IP
\fBmkmamedb\fR
.PP
.PP
Print a report about the current state of your rom sets in the
\fIroms\fR
subdir of the current dir:
.IP
\fBckmame\fR
.PP
.PP
Fix all sets and only report unfixable errors, omitting those
roms where no good dump exists:
.IP
\fBckmame \-Fwd\fR
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.B ckmame
was written by
Dieter Baron
<dillo@giga.or.at>
and
Thomas Klausner
<tk@giga.or.at.>
.SH "BUGS"
Files that are in clone sets of a set, but would belong in the parent
set, are not moved automatically.
Add them to the parent set manually, then run
\fBckmame \-F\fR
to remove them from the clone set(s) automatically.
